So in the last lesson we finally styled our collection item component to have our hover.
Add to Cart button in this section.
Let's actually wire up the appropriate redux actions and read redux code so that this adds a cart button.
Actually start saving these items into our cart reducer so the first thing we need to do in order to
do this is we have to add the actual property we're trying to set inside of our reducer so inside of
our application if we go to our cart reducer here we want to add a new property called cart items and
very similar to when we hand a local state inside of a state full component such as a class component.
We can set it in a very similar way with an empty array as the default value.
Now what we need to do is we need to actually start adding items into this array or clearing them out
depending on the feature and in this case what we want to do is we want to add items to this car items
array.
So what we're going to have to do is we are going to have to add both the new actions and the new action
types so that our reducer is are aware of what ad item action we're trying to make.
So what we'll do is we will go to our cart types here and inside we are going to make a new ad item
and we are going to use this first inside of a reducer.
So what we need to think about is how we're going to do this.
Now I know that I mentioned in our final application that when we add items it will increase a quantity
instead of displaying them in a multiplicative way.
But let's just start with that because we want to work from small features into their complexity first.
So all we're going to do is we are just going to add the item into the array whenever the user clicks
it.
If there's duplicates that's fine they'll just show up in the array as duplicates and we'll handle grouping
them later.
So what we're going to do is we are going to new and add a new case right underneath our first case
with toggle car hidden called cart action types using our new AD item and what we'll say is we want
to return an object with all of the state right as it is we'll spread it through.
But now we want our car items array to be our old car items.
And then with the newest action that got fired right.
That is trigger add item we want to deposit whatever the item it is in the payload of that action into
this array.
So we'll first spread in the existing cart items that are already on our state and then what we're gonna
do is we're just going to add the action payload to the end of this array so if you're unfamiliar with
this all we're doing is we're spreading in all of our array values and then any additional values we
add at the end will automatically appear in the very end of this array following all of our spread values
from our existing array so if this seems kind of confusing it's ok don't worry once we write the action
it will totally make sense.
So just look at this right now what we're doing is we're getting the item payload right we're assuming
that the item coming in will be what will be the payload value on our action what we need to do now
is we actually need to write the action so let's actually do that inside of car.
Actions What we want to do is we want to make a new action called add item to cart actually let's just
call it an item what it will be is a function that gets the item that we want to add to that array that
we just made and what will return is this new action type object where the type is our car action type
start add item which will tell our producer Hey I'm trying to add this item and the payload will be
equal to the item.
So as you remember actions can have a type value and a payload value the payload value can be anything
we want it to be and in our case we want it to be the item we're trying to add into our cart items array
so now that we have this payload right inside of our action definition let's actually bring this into
our components so that we can actually use it so what we need to do is we actually need to go back to
our collection item and now we want to import in all of the redux bindings that give us access the same
way that we saw when we did our toggle button so we need to import in connect from reactive redux
and then we need to import in that new ad item action that we made.
So let's just bring that in an item from
redux heart cart action so with our new AD item we know that we need to create our map dispatch the
props
because we need to dispatch this new ad item and I'll show you what we're gonna do with this one because
now we need to take in this new item object as well so map dispatch to props will be this function that
gets a dispatch
and what we'll say is that whenever there's an item it will get an item in as the property right of
this function that will represent the ad item prop that gets passed in and then we will dispatch our
ad item action creator passing the item in so all we're doing here is we are simply creating this new
function that's a prop call ad item that will go into our collection item as the ad item function that
we need to leverage.
And then what we do is whenever we actually dispatch or call this function this function will receive
the item as the property pass it into our ad item.
Action creator which gives us back that object where the type is equal to AD item and the payload is
equal to the item they got passed in and then we will dispatch that new object into our store and it
will go through our redux flow so here we just need to make sure right because we're not actually taking
any map state to props that we pass null as the first value and then we pass our map dispatch to props
as the second value.
So now we'll have access to this ad item dispatch into our props which we want to make sure that we
d structure off but now is the interesting part because we actually need access to the item that this
collection item represents now in order for us to actually dispatch it into our new AD item function
that we wrote.
So we need to actually tweak our code a little bit.
The first thing that we need to do is we need to see where we're using our collection item which is
our collection preview.
Normally what we do is we just spread in all of the props.
As you remember right from the item itself other than the I.D. because we use it as the key that is
the idea value and then we spread everything else in as a prop which we then D structure off of our
props object and use inside of our collection.
Item instead what we want to do is we just want to pass the whole item in as item.
So instead of doing it like this we are going to say that what we want is the whole item and then for
the key we're still going to call item to I.D. except now we're going to pass item as the item.
So as you see all we did was just simply pass the whole item in Key is still item I.D. still using the
I.D. but now in our collection item we have access to our item object.
Now we still need to use these values.
So let's cut these out and what we'll do is we will do a explicit return of our function.
So before when we had these round brackets we're just going to use our squiggly brackets which implies
that we are rendering multiple javascript out of this function.
We will make sure to return our component from this.
But what we'll do inside of our new squiggly brackets is we will say const D structure these properties
that we were destruction before from the props except I want you to d structure them off the item.
Now the reason we're doing this is because we want these values still because we use them inside of
our component definition but we need access to the item itself.
So this way we actually have access to the item now.
So we see that we're not using the I.D. So let's just remove that from here.
And then on our custom button we'll say on click is this function that will fire calling our add item
passing the item in.
I know we wrote a lot of code just now just to set up our redux but this is actually a very simple flow.
Once you get used to all of the moving parts.
So let's actually first see it before we review this.
Now that we've written this let's go to our application and now we'll see that whenever we click our
add item to cart we're firing our new ad item action.
The payload is that item that we have and we'll see inside of our actual cart reducer that our cart
is updating and now we're displaying these items.
And while they might not be grouped together even under the same item we can see that our redux action
is working and it's firing whenever we click every time we click we're getting our ad item action to
dispatch and our cart is getting updated in its car items with the newest thing that was being added
appended to the end of our cart items array so if we just go over this one more time what we did was
we had to make sure that we added the new value which was our cart items that we were trying to track
into our initial state of our reducer then we had to make a new action that was going to represent what
we were trying to do to modify that new property which is our car items array.
Next we define the actual action itself which is our ad item which is a function that gets the item
and generates this new action with the action type of ad item that we just made passing the item in
as the payload which are reducer then has to listen for with the new case for that new action type that
we just made so that whenever the action comes in we make sure that what we're doing is we're returning
the new state of our over all cart reducer.
So it has whatever existing hidden value is there except the carte items array is a new array.
We have to make sure it's a new array where we spread in the existing card items except we append the
new item that we get as a payload in at the end of this array.
Finally we have to make sure that we update our actual collection item so that it pulls in to its props
using the new map dispatch to props where we make sure that when we define the actual add item prop
itself it's a function that gets whatever we want to pass in as the payload in as the property we then
return the dispatch action on us creating our actual action using our ad item.
Action creator that we defined as you remember right here.
So as we here this returns the object which represents our new ad item action type as well as the payload
which it then finally dispatches.
I know this is a lot of redux juggling.
It's like we're jumping back and forth between all these redux files right.
Just to do something like this and this is kind of the overhead that comes with the bricks.
But at the same time we've now defined this function that we can use anywhere on any component that
allows us to add these items into the same array that we're using in different places in our application
as well.
So it's kind of the right tradeoff.
It increases in this complexity but it gives us these beautiful reusable functions and reusable state
that we can now leverage across the application.
So now that we have our ad item action that adds to this array let's actually start grouping them so
that we don't get these duplicates inside of this array.
So I'll see you in the next lesson.